# ConnectX

  The set of well known an often played games of humanity have developed around human cognitive ability and the economics of human free time.  We as a species developed them as tools of diversion and intellectual stimulation but in order to become prevelant they must be fun for people and because of these conditions they for the most part do not run longer than an hour or two and the most popular ones tend not to have overly extensive rule sets.  This is exemplified best by Go and Chess.  The game trees for both of these games are staggering allowing for a seemingly infinite number of novel games but the scale of the board, the number of pieces, and the total plays made by each player in any single game is low enough that they can function as either a fun way to spend an occasional afternoon or an entire career of professional study and play.  As the first mechanical tabulating machines were invented and through the creation of the field of artificial intelligence first researches/inventors and later the public at large became enthralled with contests of intellect between the would be intelligent machines and their progenitors, humans and their biological brains.
  Board games became a natural choice for the measure of ability computer software being more easily set to the task of playing discrete game with natural mathematical definitions.  As Moore's Law advanced and game theory became more sophisticated through the second half of the 20th century computers overtook humans in the games Checkers and Chess among others.  More recently the game Go which has a game tree many orders of magnitude greater than either Checkers or Chess and was seen as the pinnacle challenge for computers playing classical board games was overtaken by computers powered by cutting edge artificial intelligence software methods.  Tangentially to this the field of machine learning and the use of various types of neural networks, mathematical techniques of hierarchical knowledge representation and storage/access, along with the parallel computational abilities provided by modern graphics processing units has enabled a wellspring of results across computer science, engineering, mathematics, medicine and others and is fueling pervasive technological innovation.  The computer scientists have moved into the more continuous domain of modern graphical computer games for contests of ability/exploring the limits of software to explore novel domains unassisted and it seems somewhat that we are left without any more board games to examine; or at least ones where there is not a computer program ready to reliably outperform any human challenger.
    I am working on this project as a means to arbitrarily scale the rules of a relatively simple game, Connect 4, which has a small numbers of parameters which use exact numbers.  These are the number of pieces that must be placed in a row in order to win, the height of the board, and the width of the board.  One reason for doing this is adaptability of artificial intelligence and/or game theory methodologies. That is to say given a specific program for playing the original game, how well does that method adapt to both incremental and nonincremental changes to the specific scale of the game.  The most intuitive counterpart to this would be scaling the game Go arbitrarily, playing essentially the same game on a 18x18 or 20x20 board and along the rest of the number line for as long as it would be worth exploring or 'Connect X' on an infinite 2D space.  The two most obvious additions to this concept would be scaling the game to an arbitrary number of players and making analogous games with game spaces in three dimensions and higher.  Some of these may actually still be enjoyable for humans but do not have the benefit of players that follow from longevity and commercialization.  Others may be interesting to watch computers play but may be difficult for humans to play well and others, particularly games in over three dimensions may be difficult for humans to even understand computers playing the game.  Regardless there is a whole number line from which to set the rules and a unique game tree for every version.  Neural networks have been regarded by many as somewhat inscrutable and so this endeavour would seem like one way to make them more scrutable at least in this particular domain.  It invites questions like given the particular domain of a game, if it is an incrementally scalable game what is the optimal way to scale a neural net to play that game well at various incremental scales and step changes in scale.

  This project is still under development and other games may included later on.
